IMAD Assignment 2

In this assignment i have be tasked with creating a Tamagotchi app where we would feed, clean and play with a pet while keeping an eye on the pet's status on their health, cleanliness and boredom state. Upon creating this app, I had the idea of a modern style Tamagotchi app with slight inspiration from one of my favorite video games/anime Pokémon. My app would allow users to take care of a pet pokemon by feeding, cleaning, and playing with it.

I have created two activities, the main activity which I had changed the background to display drawable image pokedex.png. The main activity containing a welcome page displaying an imageView(pokeimg), videoView(gifTextView), two labels(txtHead,txtWell) and a button(btnClick). The imageView (displaying drawabe image pokemonlogo.png ) and the two labels i incorporated in the heading which displays “Welcome to Pokémon Tamagotchi app”. The videoView used to display a gif related to the app. Lastly the button which is used to send the user to the second activity.

In the second activity there is four labels(txtCook,txtFeed,txtTime,txtPlay), four button(btnFeed,btnClean,btnPlay,btnResult) and an imageView(imgChange). The four labels used in the second activity are used to display the three different statuses of the pet and the last label which is used to display the users progress in the application. The four button used in the application three of them which is used to affect the status of the pet and the last button used to display a result the user a result based on whether the user had correctly or incorrectly took care of the of their pet. Lastly the imageView would change the generated images. Upon viewing the code you would see declarations for my buttons, labels and imageView and code for txtFeed which would display text upon entering the activity. Next i would create code for a the three button (btnFeed,btnCook,btnPlay) related to changing the status of the pet which would affect the labels txtCook,txtTime, and txtPlay. The three button all have the same code which is begins with the changing of the image on imgChange by coding [imgChange.setImageResource(R.drawable.sleepie)] the user would be able to change the image of the code when clicking the button. Next i would declare three new variables intFeed, intClean and intPlay i would use these variables to create simple math problems[intFeed=10/ intFeed=intFeed-1] to display a change in the status of the pet or change in the txt Cook,txtTime, and txtPlay which I had also change there text to display 10 which would go down to 0 the more you press the button. I would then make the label the three variables that i have declared equal eachother. Lastly for each button i would then create an if statement [if (intClean == 0)] which means that when the variables = 0 the following code will occur which is [btnClean.isEnabled = false/ txtFeed.text = "Pet is super clean!"] the button would be disabled by say false in the code which would mean the button would not be able to click appoint the variable equaling 0 and code to change the text displayed to the user upon “completing the task”. Lastly in the code i would create code for my last button btnResult which is mainly used to display weather the user correctly took care of the pet or in other completed there tasks. By creating an if statement [if (txtCook.text.toString().toInt() == 0 && txtTime.text.toString().toInt() == 0 && txtPlay.text.toString().toInt() == 0)] the user will be displayed an output say you have won but if the statement is false then the user will be displayed a output say that they lose and there pet has fainted.

References:

Kotlin. (2024). Keywords and operators. Retrieved [29 April], from https://kotlinlang.org/docs/keywords.html

Stack Overflow. (2021.). Android - How to disable a button in Kotlin? Retrieved [29 April], from https://stackoverflow.com/questions/[question_id]
